412 POB

PBt:

Portus, ns, m„ a harbor, haren, PotestaS, atis, s. (possum), power,

ort.

Polioo, ere, poposci, —‚ tr„ to ask,
demand, importune, require.

Possessio, onis, f. (possideo), a
possession. property, estate.

Possideo, ere, edi, essum, tr. (po
-i- sedeo), to have, hold, own,
possess, occupy.

Posside, bre, edi, essum, tr. (po
«1- sido), to take possession of;
to occupy.

Possum, posse, potui, -, irr.
intr. (potis†suni)‚ to be able,
Ι can. Potest, it is possible.

Post, adv. antipa-ep. with the accus„

ability, sorce3 authority, rule3
opportunity, permission, liberty.

Potio, 6nis, f. (poto), a drinking,
drink, druught.

Potior, iri, ltus, dep. (potis), to
become master of, take posses-
sion of 3 to acquire, obtain, pos-
sess, occupy.

Potissimum, adv. (potis), chiefly,
principally, especially, above all,
most of all.

Potius, adv. (potior), rather, more.

Poto, are, avi, atum, and potum,
tr. and intr„ to drink, tope, tip-
ple, be drunken.

after, after-ward, behind; since, Putas, a, um, part. from. Poto,

ἰὴ. Post qnam, as ter, after that,
when, as soon as.

Postea, adv. (post -†- is), after-
ward, after that. hereai'tcr3 far·
thcr. Postea quam, after, after
that.

Posteritas, fitis, f. (posterus),
posterity, after ages, futurity‚
after time.

Postera& a, um, adj. (post), comp.
posterior, emper. postrbmus or
postfimus, coming after, next,
following, ensuing. Posteri,
orum, m. pl„ postcrity, descend-
ants.

Posthac, adv. (post-l- hic), after
this, hereafter, henccforth, in
future.

Postremo, adv. (postremus),
finally, lastly3 in fine, in short.
Postremus, a, um, adj. (nuper. of
posterus), last, the last, the

lowest.

Postridie, adv. (posterus-÷ dies),
on the next clay, day after.

Postulatio, onis, f. (postulo), a
demand, request; a complaint,
applicationfor redrean.

Postulo, are, avi, atum, er. (pos-
co), to demand, request, require3
to arraign, accuse, prosecute.

that has drunk, drunken, intoxi-
cated.

Prae, prep. with the ablat„ before,
for, on account of, by reason of,
in comparison with.

Praebeo, ere, ui, itum, tr. (prae
÷ habeo), to afford, furnish, pro-
vide, offer, proffer, supply.

Praeceps, ipius, adj. (prae -l-
caput)‚ hcadsoremost, headlong,
hasty, precipitate; steep3 hasty,
rosh, inconsiderate; dangerou8‚
hazardous, critical.

Praeceptum, i, η. (praecipio), an
order, directiou, command, pre-
ceptz instruction: a maxim.

Pruecipio, ere, cepi, ceptum, tr.
(prae -†— capio), to take or seize
besoreband, anticipat03 to ad·
monish, inform, instruct, tcach;
to order, enjoin, command.

Praedpiie, adv. (praecipuus), es-
p'eciall y. particularly, peculial-ly,
principally.

Praecipuus, a, um, (praecipio),
particular, peculiar, especial;
principal, excellent, distinguish-
ed.

Praeclare, adv. (praeclarus), very

clearly, very plainly3 excellent-
ly, admirably.

Potens, tis, adj. (possum), able, Praeclarus, a, um, adj. (prae-{-

capable, power-ful, influential.
Potentia, ae, s. (potens), power,
force ς authority, influence.

clarus), very clear, very bright3
splendid, beautiful, excellent,
distinguished, illustrious.

