296 Norns.

rago
145

6. Fortem—virum, branc man, and wer-clay of being preca-ved
by you, Ojudqes! Virum, acc. in exclamation. —- A vobis, because
vobis (dative) might mean for you.

7. Inquit, i. e., Milo. —Lueriss allow (grant) that he hac suffered.

9. Hicine (hiccine), i. e., hic-ce-ne, (ne interrogative.)

80. ΙΙΙ-4010111118, ia yivinq your votes· ·

NOTES

ΤΟ ’mn

ORATION FOR KING DEIOTARUS.

 

INTRODUCTION.

Dmo’rARus was originally a tctrach of Galatia (called also Gal-
lograecia), and had firmly adhered to the Romans in their wars in
Asia. For his services and the valuable aid thus rendered, the “
senate rewarded him with the title of king, and about B. C. 63
considerably augmentcd his dominions. He enjoyed an intimate
acquaintance with Cicem, and while the latter was proconsul of
Cilicia he offered him assistance against the Parthians. In the
civil war Dei6tarus attached himself to the cause of Pompey, and
escaped in the same ship with him after the battle of Pharsalia, in
B. C. 48. But when Cacsar came into Asia from Egypt, after the
termination of the Alexandriae war, Dei6tarus presented himself
before him in the garb of a suppliant, and sought to regain his
favor. In regard to the precise nature of Caesar's reply‚ there are
conflicting accounts. It seems certain, however, that while Dei6-
tarus was allowed to retain the title of king, he was deprived of a
large part of his dominions.- It was at this time that Caesar
marchcd against Pharnaces, who had wrested Armenia Minor from
Dei6tarus‚ and after inflicting upon him that signal defeat which
is associated with the words “ Veni, vidi, vici,” he became thqguest
of the king.

In B. C. 45, Castor, the grandson of Dei6tarus, accused the latter
pf a design to murder Caesar while he was the guest of his grand-

 

 

