, ιιιτ

(inter -†- cludo), to shut up, cut
off, separate, hinder, blookade.

Interdico, ere, xi, ctum, tr. (inter
-l— dico), to forbid, prohibit, in-

terdict 3 to contradict.

Interdum, adv. (inter —l— dum),
sometimes, now and then, occa-

sionally.

Interea, adv. (inter -l- ea), mean-

while, in the mean time.

lut-ereo, ire, ii, itum, irr. intr.
(inter-keo), to perish, be de-
stroyed, die, decay.

Interfector, oris, m. (interficio), a

slayer, murderer.
Interfloio, ere, feci, fectum, tr.

(inter -ἦ- facio), to kill, slay, de·

etr-oy, murder.

Interim, adv. (inter «4- is), in the

mean time, meanwhile.

Interimo, ere, emi, emptum, tr.
(inter —{— emo), to take away, do
away with3 to abolish5 to de-
stroy, kill, slay.

Interior, ius, adj. (sup. intimus),
the inner, interior, inside οἷς
nearer3 the more secret.

Interitus, us, m. (intereo), destruc-
tion, ruin, death.

Intermitto‚ ere, misi, missum,
tr. and intr. (inter—l-mitto), to
discontinue, intermit; to omit.
neglect, let pass3 to break off,
interi-apt: to cease, pause.

latex-mortuus, a, um, adj. (inter-
morior), dead, lifeless, power·
less.

Intern'e‘olo, vnis, f. (interneco),
massacre, slaughter, utter de-
struction.

Interpone, ere, posui, positum,

' tr. (inter-l-pono), to place or
put between, interpose‚ inter·
mix ς to oppose3 to apply, pledge.

Interpres, etis, m. and f., a
broker, factor; an explainer, in-
terpreter, translator.

Interpretor, ari, atus, dep. (in-
terpres), to interpret, explain,
expound3 to translate.

Interrogo, are, avi, atum, tr.
(inter -Ι- rogo), to ask, question,

lxv 387

inquire, interregnum to examine,
bring to trial, arraign, prosecute.

Internum, esse, fni, —, irr. intr.
(inter -{›- sum), to be between, be
distant3 to be different, to differ-3
to be present, attend ; to import,
concern, interest. Interest,
impera.. it concerns, intel-ests.

Intervallum, i, n. (inter —l- val-
lum), a space between, interval,
distance, difference. .

Interventus, us, m. (intervenio),
intervention, interposition, in-
terference, mediation.

Intestinus, a, um, adj. (intus),
inward, internal, intestine.

Intimus, a, um, adj. (nep. from
interior), the inmost, innermost,
the most secret, most intimate.
latinus, i, m., a most intimate
friend.

Intolerabilit, e, adj. (in -l- tole-
rabilis), intolerable, insupporta-
ble ; impatient.

Intra, adv. and prop. with the ac-
cus„ within, in3 on the inside.
Introduoo, ere, xi, ctum, tr. (iu-
tro -l- duco), to lead or bring in,
introduce, conduct within.

lutroini& 118, m. (introeo), an en-
trance‚ introduction.

Intueor, eri, itus, clep. (in -l-
tueor), to look u on, behold, re-
gard, consider, oiiserve.

Intuli. See Insere.

Intus, adv.. within, on or to the
inside; from within.

InuituS, a, um, adj. (in -l- ultus),
unrevenged3 unpunished.

haro, ere, ussi, ustum, tr, (in -1-
uro), to burn in. brand, imprint.

Inusitata, a, um, adj. (in -ι-
usitatus), unusual, uncommon,
unwonted.

Inutilis, Θ, adj. (in —l-utilis)‚ use-
less. unserviceable, unprofitable.

Invado, ere, si, sum, tr. and intr.
(in—l-vado)‚ to go into, enter,
invade, attack, assass, rush
upon; to seize, take possession
οἷς to make inroads; to proven,
spread. ·

