001

write, enroll, enlist, lev„ to
compone.

conscriptus, a, nm, adj. (and
part. stom conscribo), conscript.
“Patren coeencrt'pti” was origi-
nally “patrea et conneripn‘,'' i. e.
the old senatore, and those who
were afterward enrolled with
them to complete the number.

consecro. are, avi, atum, er. (eon
-l-sacro), to consecrate,·dedicate;
to devote to the gods.

Consens10‚ onis, f. (consentio),
agreement, unanimity.

consensus, ns, m. (consentio),
agreement, unanimity, concord.

consentaneus, a, um, adj. (eon-
sentio), befitting, consistent, in
accordance with, agreeable ιο,
fitting.

consentio, ire, sensi, sensum,
intr. (con -l- sentio), to agree,
harmonize; to agree upon, con-
spire, assent to.

consequor, i, secutus, dep. (oon
-l-sequor), to follow, attend, ac·
company, pursue; to result, en-
sue, proceed; to reach, attain,
gain, overtake.

conservatam onis, f. (conservo), a
keeping, preserving, preserva-
tion.

conservator, oris, m. (conservo),
a keeper, preserver, defendor,
protector.

Conservo, are, avi, atum, tr. (con
-1- servo), to preserve, keep,
save, retain, protect.

consessus, us, m. (consido), an as-
sembl .

ansidei-rate, adv. (considero), con-
siderately, cautiously.

Consideratus, a, um, adj. (con-
sidero), considerate, cautious,
circumspect.

considero, are, avi, atum, tr„ to
consider, meditate, weigh, re-
flcct upon.

Considius, i, m., a Roman gentile
name. -
Consigno, are, avi, atum, tr. (oon

-l-signo), to scal, sign ; to attest,

001 355

corais„ ιο note, register, re-

cor .

consillum, i, a„ counsel, advice3
deliberation, prudence; design,
intention, measure, plan, pur-
pose5 resolution 3 judgment, dis·
cretion3 utinam a council. Con·
tilio, ablat„ on purpose, int'en-
tionally.

Consiste, ὅτε, nuti, stitum, intr.
(con-l-sisto), to take a stand,
make a stand, stand, stop, settle;
to consist, agree.

consobrinus, i, m. (eon -ξ- sobri-
nus), a cousin.

consocio, are, avi, atum, er. (con
-Ι-εοοίο), ιο share with, associ-
ate, join, unite, connect.

Consolatio, onis, f. (consolor),
consolation, comfort.

consolor, stri, atus, dep. (con-l-
eolor), to console, comfort, cheer;
to mitigate, alleviato, scothe.

Consors, tis, adj. (con -ί- sors),
sharing with. partaking of.

Gonu otuu, ns, m. (conspicio), a
sig t, look, view, consideration.

conspicio, ere, κροκι, spectum,
tr. (con 4- specio), to see, view,
observe, perceive, discern.

conspiratio, onis, f. (conspiro),
concord, unanimity5 conspiracy,
lot.

colnspm, are, ivi, atum, intr.
(con -i- spiro), to agree, accord;
to conspire, plot.

Constans, tis, fflij· (and part. from
consto), stoady, firm, constant,
resolved‚ resolute3 consistent,
uniform. ,

Constanter, adv. (constans), firm-
ly, steadily, uniformly, evenly.
Constanth, a0,f. (constans). firm-

ness, steadiness, constancy, con-
sistency, crseverance.
constiti. §ze consisto or consto.

Constituo, Ere, ui, ntum, tr. (con
-l-statuo), to place, station3 to
ercet, build, sound3 to dispose,
arrange, establish, settle, ap-
point3 to stop, halt3 to deter-
mine, resolve, ordain, agree upon.

