ΠΔΒ

hand3 by soree, forcibly, vio-
lently.

marcellus, i, m„ a Roman family
name.

Marcius, i, m., a Roman gentile
name.

Πῦτθ, is, n„ the sea.

Maritimus, a, um, adj. (mare),
maritime, on οι· near the sea. ,

Maritus, i, m. (mas), a husband, 1
married man.

Marius, i, m., a Roman gentile
name.

Marmor, oris, n„ marble.

Mars, Martis, m.‚ Mars, the god
of war; war, battle.

Hartisslifl, ο, adj. (Mars), martial,
of Mars. Martiales, inm, the
soldiers of the legio Martia.

Uettius, a, nm, adj. (Mars), mar-
tial, of Mars ; of March, March.

Massilia, ae, f., the modern Mar-
semes.

heduensis, e, ad'. (Massilia),
Massilian. Hats' iemes, lum,
m. pl„ the Massiliaetns.

Mater, tris, f., a mother.

HaterleS, ei, s. (mater), stuff,
materia13 timber, wood3 a cause, ἶ
occasion, origin. ⁸

Iatflre, adv. (maturus), early, ¹
soon. seasonahly, opportunely.

Iuturnas, atis, f. (maturus),
ripeness, maturity.

laturo, are, avi, fitum, tr. ‹md
incr. (maturus), to ripen, ma-
ture3 to accelerate, hasten, ex-
pedite, quicken.

flaturus, a, um, adj.. ripe, ma-
tur-03 timely, seasonable3 early,
speedy.

Haxlme, adv. (nuper. (gf magis),
most, in the highest degree,
most of all, above all, particu-
larly, especially, extremely.

malimus, a, um, adj. (stipem of
magnus), greatest, very great,
highest. most im ortant.

Maxlmus, i, m., (guimas Fabius
Maximus, surnamed Cunctator.

Eodem», ae, fi, Medea.

Reddet, eri, —‚ dqz, to eure, heal, .

 

 

UBI 395

remody ς ιο oon-eet, amend, re-
store.

Hedieina, ae, f. (medicinas),
medicine ; a remedy, relief, anti-
dote.

Medicinas, a, nm. αιζῐ. (medicus),
medical, οι· medicine.

Μθᾶῖοῑιὸ, i, m. (medeor), a physi-
emu, sui-geon.

Uediouis, e, adj. (medius), mid-
dnng, moderate, mediocre, ordi-
nau-y.

Mediocriter, adv. (mediocris),
moderately, ordinarily, not par-
tieularly.

Heditstfio, bnis, s. (meditor),
meditation, contemplation ς pre-
paration, practice.

Meditor, an, atus, dep„ to refleet
upon, muse over, meditate, con-
sider3 to design, purpose, in-
tend3 ιο exercise, practise.

Hedlum, i, n. (medius), the mid-
dle, midst3 the presence ot· all,
the public.

Medius, a, um, adj, mid, middle,
middle of, in the middle, be-
tween, intervening3 common ιο
all; nenti-2113 moderate.

Medius. See Dius.

Medulla, ae, f. genedius), the mar-
row, pith, the best part, quintes-
sence.

lte-heroine, me hercule, me her-
oules, adv„ by Hercules. “Me
before the names of gods must
be explained by an ellipsis: the
complete expression was, ita me
(e. g. Hercules) juvet ,· or with
the vocative, ita me Hercule
ἠυεε, so help me Hercules.''

Μ lior, 1ns. Sue Bonus.

molitu, adv. (comp. of bene),
better.

Membrum, i, n„ a member, limb.

Remini, defece. verb, 1 remember,
recollect: 1 mention.

Memmius, i, m., a Roman gentile
name.

Hemor, bris, adj. (memini),
mindful, remembering, unfor-
getting.

