440 vta

huppen, oecur. Ventum est, he
(she, it, they) came.

Velitne, i, m„ the wind.

Ver, veris, n„ the spring.

Verber, erin, n„ a soourge, whip,
lush3 a. blow, stroke, stripe.

Verbere, ere, evi, atum, tr. (ver-
ber), to beat, lash, seourge, whip,
strike.

Verbum, i, n„ a word, expression,
sayiug, remark.

Vere, adv. (verus), truly, really,
in ῖωις rightly, eorreetly.

Vox-oenum, ae, f. (verecundus),
modesty, bashfulness.

verbor, Ori, stus, dep„ tq fear,
dread, be afraid3 ιο reverenee,
revere 3 to apprehend.

Verstas, atis, f. (verus), truth.

‘verm adv. (verus), in truth, in
fact, certainly, to be sure, surely,
assuredly.

Vero, conj. (verus), but, however.

Verres, is, m.‚ Verres.

Veniemus, i, m. (versus), a little
line, a. little verse.

Verso, ere, avi, etum, tr. (verto),
to turn, wind, twist, whirl; to
disturb‚ agitat03 to meditate,
refleet upon.

Vereor, firi, ltus, dep. (verso), to
dwell, live, remain, be ; to oeeupy,
busy one's sels, be engaged iu.

Versus, ns, m. (verto), a. verse3
poetry3 song.

verto, ere, ti, sum, tr. and intr„
to turn, turn round or about3 to
overturn, overthrow, subvert; to
change, alter3 to turn, depend on ς
ιο impute, aseribe3 to turn ont.

verum, i, π. (verus), the truth3
reetitude, right, uprightneSS.

. Verum, conj. (verus), but, yet.

verus, a, um, adj„ true, real, ae-
tna13 right, just.

Vesper, §ris and eri, m„ the even-
ing. Vesperi, in the evening.

Vespera, ae,s., the evening.

Vesta. ao, f.‚· Vesta, the goddess
of the domestic hearth.

Vestalis, a, adj. (Vesta), Vestal,
of Vesta.

vm

Vester, tra, trum, poss. adj. pren.
(vos). your, yours, your own.
Vestibulum, i, n„ a. fore-eourt, en-
trance—court, vestibulo.

Vestiglum, i, w, a. footstep, foot-
print, traek, traee, sign, token,
mark, vestige3 point, moment,
instant.

Vestimentum, i, π. (vestis), eloth-
ing, a. garment, vestment.

Vestis, is, s„ elothing; a garment,
robe, vesture, attire.

ἑ Vestitus, fis, m. (vestio), elothing,

dreSS‚ raiment, clothes.

veteranus, a, um, adj. (vetus),
veteran. Veterfini, orum, m.
pl„ veterane.

veto, are, ui, itum, tr„ to forbid.

Vetus, eris, adj„ old, aged.

Vetustas, etia, f. (vetus), old age,
antiquity, long duration3 long
intimacy.

vexatio, onis, f. (vexo), annoy-
anee, molestation, trouble, vexa-
tion.

vexator, oris, m. (vexo), a trou-
bler, harasser, molestet.

vexo, are, avi, etum, tr„ to mo-
lest, annoy, vex, hames, disturb,
trouble, injure.

via, ae, f., a way, road, path3
journey3 a method, mode.

vietor, oris, m. (vio), a traveller.

Vibienus, i, m., a. Roman gentile
name.

Vibro, ῦτθ, avi, itum. tr. and intr„
to brandish, shake3 ιο launeh,
hurl3 to quiver, vibrate, glim-
mer, glitter.

Vicesimus, a, um, mem. acij.
(viginti), the twentieth.

Vicinus, a, um, adj. (vieus)‚ near,
neighboring. Vicinus, i, m„ a
neighbor.

Vicissim, adv. (vicis), in turn, on
the other hand, on the contrary.

vicissitudo, inis, f. (vicis),
change, alternation, vicissitude.

vietor, Oris, m. (vineo), a. vietor,
conqueror. Adj„ victorious.

Victoria, ae, f. (vineo), ·vietory.
The goddess Victoria.

