342 Aul

Amicus, a, um, adj. (amo), friend-
ly, amicable.

Amen.. i, m. (amicus), a friend.

Annus, i‚s., a town iu Pontus.

mitto, ere, misi, missum, tr. (a
«θ- mitto), to send away, dis-
miss‚ let. go3 ιο lose, throw
away.

Amo, are, avi, atum, tr„ to love,
like, delight in.

Amoenltaa, atis, s. (amoenus),
delightfulness, pleasantness.

Amor, Oris, m. (amo), love, affee-
tion, desire.

Amph, adv. (amplus), amply,
lau-gem, abundantly. Oomp. am-
plius, more, further, longer.

Ampleotor, i, exus, dep. (nm -4-
pleeto), ιο embraoe, eneirele,
surrouud, elasp3 to love, eher-
ish.

Amplexa, ari, atne, dep. (am-
plector), to embraoe‚ love, cher-
ish.

Ammineo, are, tvi, atum, tr.
(amplus -ἧ- facio), to extend, en-
large, increase3 ιο dilate upon,
amplify.

Amplitudo, luis, f. (amplus), sizo,
bulk, largeness ς greatneSS, gran-
deur, dignity.

Amplm, a, um, adj„ ample,
large, spacious, great3 splendid,
illustr-ioue.

An, conj- In direct queaetae'oaew it ie
not tra-nalated. In indireet quee-
ciom, whether. All—an, wheth-

Age-{stubipitiffi adj. (amb-l—
eaput), two-headed3 twofold,

double; doubtful, uncertain, du-
bious3 faitbless.

Ancilla, ae, f., a maid-servant,
female slave.

¹ ΔΠΤ

a narrow place, defile ; narrer-
ness, straitness.

Augustus, a, nm, adj. (ango),
narr-ow, strant, close, confined,
limited.

melo, are, avi, atum, tr. aad
intr. (ad†ha10)‚ to pant, puff,
gusp; ιο pursue, pant ἰοῖς ιο
breathe out or forth.

Anima, ae, f., air, breath3 life,
the vital prineip1e3 the seul,
spirit, mind.

Ammadversim onis, f. (animad-
verto), notice, observation, in·
quiry3 punishment, chastise-
ment.

Animadverte, ὅτε, ti, sum, tr.
(animus -†- ad -ἱ- verto), to tum
the mind or attention to, ιο no-
tice, obeerve, attend, pereeive3
to punish.

Animo, are, avi, atum, tr. (an-
ima), ιο quieken, animate, move,
incito to3 to be disposed, mind*
ed.

Διιίωὸεθ, adv. (animosus), boldly,
spiritedly, eourageously.

Ammonia, a, um, αεζί. (animus),
full of eourage, bold, spirited,
undaunted.

Animus, i, m., the mind, sou13 the
will, desire, purpose, inelina-
tion, design, disposition3 beart,
eourage.

Annius, i, m„ a Roman gentile
name, e. 9. Τ. Annius Milo.

Annona, ae, f. (annus), the yearly
produce3 eorn, grain, supplies,
pirovisionm the prioe of grain or
0 promemus,

Annus, i, m., a. year.
Δυιό, prep. wirla the aecum, before 3

opposite t03 superior to 3 in nd·
vanee of 3 more than.

Angiportus‚ ue, m., a narrow Ante, adv„ before, formerly3 for-

ati-eet, lane, or alley.

Ange, ere, xi, etum and auxum,
tr„ to prese upon, urge; ιο tor-
ment„ vex, trouble, distress.

ΔΗΒ-ωηο, i, m„ a corner, angle5 a
nook, lurking-plaee.

Angustiae, arum, s. (angustus),

Anteoello‚

ward, in advanee.

Antea, adv. (ante-ken), before,

formerly, reviously. ,

¹⁸09 -ν “-2 (ante-{-
eello), to be prominent, distin·
gulish one’e self3 ιο surpass, ex-
ee

 

